Finalizing changelog for v6.0.0 (#15648)
astropy/astropy: CHANGES.rst

Version 6.0.0 (2023-11-25)
==========================

New Features
------------

astropy.config
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The new ``ConfigNamespace.help()`` method provides a convenient way to get
  information about configuration items. [#13499]

astropy.coordinates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Support has been added to create geodetic representations not just for existing ellipsoids
  from ERFA, but also with explicitly provided values, by defining a subclass of
  ``BaseGeodeticRepresentation`` with the equatorial radius and flattening assigned to
  ``_equatorial_radius`` and ``_flattening`` attributes. [#14763]

- Add ``BaseBodycentricRepresentation``, a new spheroidal representation for bodycentric
  latitudes and longitudes. [#14851]

- Support Numpy broadcasting over frame data and attributes. [#15121]

astropy.cosmology
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> - Added a ``write_latex()`` method for exporting a Cosmology object to a LaTex table. [#14701]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Registered a ``latex`` writer for exporting a Cosmology object to a LaTex table. [#14701]
```

- Added argument ``rename`` to Cosmology's I/O, allowing for input and output symbols to
  be renamed. [#14780]

- All non-abstract Cosmology subclasses are now automatically registered to work with
  Astropy's YAML serialization. [#14979]

- Cosmology I/O now auto-identifies the '.tex' suffix with the 'ascii.latex' format. [#15088]

- The ``Cosmology`` class now has a new property to access the parameters of the
  cosmology: ``.parameters``. This property return a read-only dictionary of all the
  non-derived parameter values on the cosmology object. When accessed from the class (not
  an instance) the dictionary contains ``Parameter`` instances, not the values. [#15168]

- The field ``default`` has been added to ``Parameter``. This can be used to introspect

>   the default value of a parameter on a cosmology class ``e.g. LambdaCDM.H0.default``. [#15400]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the default value of a parameter on a cosmology class e.g. ``LambdaCDM.H0.default``. [#15400]
```

Reviewer 2: Why weren't these caught in the original PR?

  a result it now works also with ``EarthLocation``. [#15304]

- Uncertainty ``Distribution`` can now be used inside representations, which
  also allows basic support in ``SkyCoord``. While most calculations work, there
  are remaining issues.  For instance, the ``repr`` does not show that the
  coordinates are distributions. [#15395]

astropy.units
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Add support for gc2gde and gd2gce erfa functions to allow geodetic representations
  using equatorial radius and flattening. [#14729]

astropy.utils
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The ``astropy.utils.metadata.MetaData`` default dictionary can now be
  set with the ``default_factory`` keyword argument. [#15265]

- ``astropy.utils.decorators.deprecated`` now adds the ``__deprecated__`` attribute to
  the objects it wraps, following the practice in https://peps.python.org/pep-0702/. [#15310]

astropy.visualization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Add ``WCSAxes.text_coord`` method to print text using ``SkyCoord`` objects
  parallel to plotting data points with ``WCSAxes.plot_coord``. [#14661]

astropy.wcs
^^^^^^^^^^^

- Support WCS descriptions of basic planetary coordinate frames. [#14820]

> - Updated bundled WCSLIB version to 8.1. This update adds support planetary keywords ``A_RADIUS``, ``B_RADIUS``, ``C_RADIUS``, ``BLON_OBS``, ``BLAT_OBS``, and ``BDIS_OBS`` in ``auxprm`` and adds ``wcsprm::time`` to the ``wcsprm`` struct to record the ``TIME`` axis. This update also includes several bug fixes. For a full list of changes - see http://www.atnf.csiro.au/people/mcalabre/WCS/CHANGES [#15035]

Reviewer 3: Not sure if any editing is wanted, but perhaps good to split this very long line (and, yes, I should have caught that in review...)
